# NetFlow Destination


The NetFlow Destination exclusively forwards [NetFlow](https://www.cisco.com/c/en/us/products/ios-nx-os-software/ios-netflow/index.html) v5 and v9 UDP traffic to NetFlow collectors. The NetFlow Destination relies on the `__netflowRaw` field that is generated from a Cribl Stream [NetFlow Source](sources-netflow). The raw NetFlow packet data is sent directly to the configured NetFlow collector(s). Events without `__netflowRaw` are discarded.

> Type: Non-Streaming | TLS Support: No | PQ Support: Yes
>
{.box .info} 

## Requirements

- **Enable pass-through**: The NetFlow Source must have **Enable pass-through** toggled on to generate events containing `__netflowRaw`.
- **Routing**: Ensure only events with `__netflowRaw` are [routed](routes) to the NetFlow Destination.

## Raw Forwarding

For both NetFlow v5 and v9, Cribl Stream:

- Can forward NetFlow packets to other NetFlow collectors. However, it cannot modify the contents of the incoming packet. In other words, Cribl Stream forwards the packets verbatim as they come in.
- Only routes NetFlow packets from upstream Exporters and cannot generate its own NetFlow packets.
- Cannot send non-NetFlow input data to NetFlow collectors.

## Beyond Raw Forwarding

While the NetFlow Destination relies solely on `__netflowRaw`, other fields such as `srcAddr` and `packets` generated by the NetFlow Source are used for:

- **Non-NetFlow Destinations**: Providing structured, human-readable data for systems like Splunk or Amazon S3.
- **Analytics**: Supporting filtering, enrichment, and aggregation within Cribl Stream.
- **Internal processing**: Enabling Pipeline logic and routing decisions.
- **Validation**: Assisting in debugging and verifying parsed NetFlow data.

## Configure a NetFlow Destination

1. On the top bar, select **Products**, and then select **Cribl Stream**. Under **Worker Groups**, select a Worker Group. Next, you have two options:
   - To configure via [QuickConnect](quickconnect), navigate to **Routing** > **QuickConnect** (Stream) or **Collect** (Edge). Select **Add Destination** and select the Destination you want from the list, choosing either **Select Existing** or **Add New**. 
   - To configure via the [Routes](routes), select **Data** > **Destinations** or **More** > **Destinations** (Edge). Select the Destination you want. Next, select **Add Destination**.
2. In the **New Destination** modal, configure the following under **General Settings**:
   - **Output ID**: Enter a unique name to identify this NetFlow definition. If you clone this Destination, Cribl Stream will add `-CLONE` to the original **Output ID**.
   - **Description**: Optionally, enter a description.
   - **NetFlow Destinations**: Add the downstream NetFlow collectors to which Cribl Stream should send data.
     - **Address:** Hostname or IP address of the NetFlow collector.
     - **Port:** Port number to connect to on the NetFlow collector. Defaults to `2055`, which is the standard port for NetFlow traffic.
3. Next, you can configure the following **Optional Settings**: 
   - **Tags**: Optionally, add tags that you can use to filter and group Destinations on the **Destinations** page. These tags aren't added to processed events. Use a tab or hard return between (arbitrary) tag names.
3. Optionally, you can adjust the [Processing](#processing) and [Advanced](#advanced-tab) settings outlined in the sections below.
4. Select **Save**, then **Commit & Deploy**.
   
### Processing Settings {#processing}

#### Post‑Processing

**Pipeline**: [Pipeline](pipelines) or [Pack](packs) to process data before sending the data out using this output.

### Advanced Settings {#advanced-tab}

**DNS resolution period (sec)**: Re-resolve any hostnames after each interval of this many seconds, and pick up destinations from records. Defaults to `0` seconds. A value of `0` means every datagram sent will incur a DNS lookup. A non-zero value improves performance but can reduce the overall reliability if the DNS records for the downstream NetFlow collectors change frequently.

**Environment**: If you’re using GitOps, optionally use this field to specify a single Git branch on which to enable this configuration. If empty, the config will be enabled everywhere.

## Internal Fields

The NetFlow Destination forwards the `__netflowRaw` field that is generated from a Cribl Stream NetFlow Source to downstream NetFlow collectors.

## Troubleshooting

[Snippet not found: content/shared/4.8/snippets/_destinations-troubleshooting.md]
